# Practical matters

## Assumed knowledge

It is assumed that students have taken *Functional Analysis*, *Numerical
Analysis* and *Scientific Python* courses in MAMATH, or have equivalent
knowledge.

## Dropping the course

If the course is mandatory, students cannot drop this course after the two week
trial period at the start of the semester. If the course is optional, dropping
the course may be possible. Please contract the study programme directory for
guidance.

## Teaching

For *practical session* must bring a laptop with Python version 3.10 or later
installed (recommended), or with access to [Google
Colaboratory](https://colab.research.google.com).

## Assessment

Assessment is via coursework (30%) and final written examination (70%). The due
date for the coursework will be set at a later time. The syllabus for the exam
contains material from the entire course.

## Coursework submission

The deadline for submission is Wednesday 28th May 2025 end of day. Please
submit via email to [jack.hale@uni.lu](mailto:jack.hale@uni.lu)  with the
subject "Numerical Solutions of PDEs and Applications Coursework 2025".

The email should contain an archive file `SURNAME_coursework.zip` file
containing your completed notebooks.

## Attendance policy

Attendance at the *lectures* is strongly advised.

Attendance at the *practical sessions* is mandatory as they relate to the
coursework - one absence will be excused. Further absences must be supported by
documentation according to the study regulations and a meeting with the study
programme director and/or instructors.

## Retake policy

Failure on the coursework can be compensated through the examination, and vice
versa, as long as the final mark for the course is greater than or equal to 10.

In the event that the final mark is less than 10:

- The student may request a retake the examination once.
- The student may not resubmit the coursework.

If the final mark remains less than 10 the student has failed, and can take the
entire course again in the next semester that it is offered.

## Communication

Electronic communication to students as a group will be via the University's
Moodle. Private communications from students to the instructors must be made
via the University emails.
