# Syllabus

## A brief survey of partial differential equations

This chapter briefly introduces the notion of linear PDEs and their
classification into elliptic, parabolic and hyperbolic equations. We
mention some classical examples, mainly issued from physics and
engineering, such as the transport equation, the Laplace equation, the
heat equation and the wave equation.

## Elements of functional analysis

We introduce the main notions and theoretical results of functional
analysis that are extensively used in the numerical analysis of partial
differential equations. We consider the Riesz representation theorem
regarding representation of continuous linear forms on a Hilbert space,
and we survey the notions of bilinear form, of continuous injection of a
Hilbert space into another, the notion of derivative in the sense of
Fr√©chet, some elements of the theory of distributions, the basic
properties of the Lebesgue and Sobolev spaces, and the notion of adjoint
operator.

## Elliptic equations

We illustrate boundary-value problems for elliptic equations (in one and
several dimensions), present their variational reformulations, treat the
boundary conditions and analyze their well-posedness. Several examples
of physical interest are introduced, in particular the Poisson equation,
starting with the one-dimensional case, for various boundary conditions.
We consider some variational formulations of these problems, and then
turn to the boundary-value problems associated to the Poisson equation
in the two-dimensional case. We establish that under some regularity
condition the weak formulation is equivalent to the strong one. For
general elliptic problems, the Lax-Milgram theorem ensures that the weak
formulation is well-posed.

## The Galerkin finite element method for elliptic problems

We formulate Galerkin's method for the numerical discretization of
elliptic boundary-value problems and analyze its existence, uniqueness,
stability and convergence features in an abstract functional setting. We
then introduce the Galerkin finite elements method, first in one
dimension, and then in several dimensions.

## The Galerkin finite element method -- a numerical example

This section introduces students to the development of a one-dimensional
Galerkin finite element solver for the Poisson problem using Python. We
focus on building the solver within a provided Jupyter notebook,
providing hands-on experience with the computational and algorithmic
aspects of the finite element method.

## Finite elements for hyperbolic equations

To be completed.
